Clean up documentation (#1506)
jmorganca/ollama: docs/api.md

### Model names

> Model names follow a `model:tag` format. Some examples are `orca-mini:3b-q4_1` and `llama2:70b`. The tag is optional and, if not provided, will default to `latest`. The tag is used to identify a specific version. Models uploaded by users will have the format `namespace/model:tag`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Model names follow a `model:tag` format, where `model` can have an optional namespace such as `example/model`. Some examples are `orca-mini:3b-q4_1` and `llama2:70b`. The tag is optional and, if not provided, will default to `latest`. The tag is used to identify a specific version.
```

### Durations

All durations are returned in nanoseconds.

### Streaming responses

Certain endpoints stream responses as JSON objects and can optional return non-streamed responses.

> <hr>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  "model": "llama2",
  "created_at": "2023-08-04T19:22:45.499127Z",
  "response": "",
  "done": true,
  "context": [1, 2, 3],
  "total_duration":10706818083,
  "load_duration":6338219291,
  "prompt_eval_count":26,
  "prompt_eval_duration":130079000,
  "eval_count":259,
  "eval_duration":4232710000
}
```

> #### Generate request (No streaming)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Request (No streaming)
```

> ##### Request

Reviewer: Do we need this layer (h5) of headers? It's getting deep

  "model": "llama2",
  "created_at": "2023-08-04T19:22:45.499127Z",
  "response": "The sky is blue because it is the color of the sky.",
  "done": true,
  "context": [1, 2, 3],
  "total_duration": 5043500667,
  "load_duration": 5025959,
  "prompt_eval_count": 26,
  "prompt_eval_duration": 325953000,
  "eval_count": 290,
  "eval_duration": 4709213000
}
```

> #### Generate request (JSON mode)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Request (JSON mode)
```

> When `format` is set to `json`, the output will always be a well-formed JSON object. You must also include text like 'respond using JSON' or 'output in JSON' in the prompt. If you include a schema in the prompt listing the desired property names and types, most models tend to use it. In cases where results aren't perfect, few-shot prompting has a positive effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> When `format` is set to `json`, the output will always be a well-formed JSON object. It's important to also instruct the model to respond in JSON.
```

##### Request

```shell
curl http://localhost:11434/api/generate -d '{
  "model": "llama2",
  "prompt": "What color is the sky at different times of the day? Respond using JSON",
  "format": "json",
  "stream": false
}'
```

##### Response

```json
{
  "model": "llama2",
  "created_at": "2023-11-09T21:07:55.186497Z",
  "response": "{\n\"morning\": {\n\"color\": \"blue\"\n},\n\"noon\": {\n\"color\": \"blue-gray\"\n},\n\"afternoon\": {\n\"color\": \"warm gray\"\n},\n\"evening\": {\n\"color\": \"orange\"\n}\n}\n",
  "done": true,
  "context": [1, 2, 3], 
  "total_duration": 4648158584,
  "load_duration": 4071084,
  "prompt_eval_count": 36,
  "prompt_eval_duration": 439038000,
  "eval_count": 180,
  "eval_duration": 4196918000
}
```

The value of `response` will be a string containing JSON similar to:

```json
{
  "morning": {
    "color": "blue"
  },
  "noon": {
    "color": "blue-gray"
  },
  "afternoon": {
    "color": "warm gray"
  },
  "evening": {
    "color": "orange"
  }
}
```

> #### Generate request (with images)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Request (with images)
```

  "model": "llava",
  "created_at": "2023-11-03T15:36:02.583064Z",
  "response": "A happy cartoon character, which is cute and cheerful.",
  "done": true,
  "context": [1, 2, 3],
  "total_duration": 2938432250,
  "load_duration": 2559292,
  "prompt_eval_count": 1,
  "prompt_eval_duration": 2195557000,
  "eval_count": 44,
  "eval_duration": 736432000
}
```

> #### Generate request (Raw Mode)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Request (Raw Mode)
```

}'
```

##### Response

```json
{
  "model": "llama2",
  "created_at": "2023-08-04T19:22:45.499127Z",
  "response": "The sky is blue because it is the color of the sky.",
  "done": true,
  "context": [1, 2, 3], 
  "total_duration": 4935886791,
  "load_duration": 534986708,
  "prompt_eval_count": 26,
  "prompt_eval_duration": 107345000,
  "eval_count": 237,
  "eval_duration": 4289432000
}
```

#### Load a model

> If you post a body with just the model, it will load the model into memory, but not do a generation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If no prompt is provided the model into memory.
```

POST /api/chat
```

> Generate the next message in a chat with a provided model. This is a streaming endpoint, so there will be a series of responses. Streaming can be disabled using `stream: false`. The final response object will include statistics and additional data from the request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generate the next message in a chat with a provided model. This is a streaming endpoint, so there will be a series of responses. Streaming can be disabled using `"stream": false`. The final response object will include statistics and additional data from the request.
```

### Examples

> #### Chat Request (Streaming)

Reviewer: I think we might have left out the contents of this section

Author: I didn't really have anything to add, but the levels are there for consistency with the rest of the doc

  "model": "llama2",
  "created_at": "2023-08-04T19:22:45.499127Z",
  "done": true,
  "total_duration":4883583458,
  "load_duration":1334875,
  "prompt_eval_count":26,
  "prompt_eval_duration":342546000,
  "eval_count":282,
  "eval_duration":4535599000
}
```

#### Chat request (No streaming)

##### Request

```shell
curl http://localhost:11434/api/chat -d '{
  "model": "llama2",
  "messages": [
    {
      "role": "user",
      "content": "why is the sky blue?"
    }
  ], 
  "stream": false
}'
```

##### Response

```json
{
  "model": "registry.ollama.ai/library/llama2:latest",
  "created_at": "2023-12-12T14:13:43.416799Z",
  "message": {
    "role": "assistant",
    "content": "Hello! How are you today?"
  },
  "done": true,
  "total_duration": 5191566416,
  "load_duration": 2154458,
  "prompt_eval_count": 26,
  "prompt_eval_duration": 383809000,
  "eval_count": 298,
  "eval_duration": 4799921000
}
```

#### Chat request (With History)

> Send a chat message with a conversation history. You can use this same approach to start the conversation using multi-shot prompting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Send a chat message with a conversation history. You can use this same approach to start the conversation using multi-shot or chain-of-thought prompting.
```

  "created_at": "2023-08-04T08:52:19.385406455-07:00",
  "message": {
    "role": "assisant",

>     "content": "The", 
>     "images": null

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "content": "The"
```

}'
```

##### Response

```json
{
  "model": "llava",
  "created_at": "2023-12-13T22:42:50.203334Z",
  "message": {
    "role": "assistant",
    "content": " The image features a cute, little pig with an angry facial expression. It's wearing a heart on its shirt and is waving in the air. This scene appears to be part of a drawing or sketching project.",
    "images": null
  },
  "done": true,
  "total_duration":1668506709,
  "load_duration":1986209,
  "prompt_eval_count":26,
  "prompt_eval_duration":359682000,
  "eval_count":83,
  "eval_duration":1303285000
}
```

## Create a Model

```shell
POST /api/create
```

> Create a model from a [`Modelfile`](./modelfile.md). It is recommended to set `modelfile` to the content of the Modelfile rather than just set `path`. This is a requirement for remote create. Remote model creation must also create any file blobs, fields such as `FROM` and `ADAPTER`, explicitly with the server using [Create a Blob](#create-a-blob) and the value to the path indicated in the response. Note that this just creates the model on the Ollama server and doesn't push it to Ollama.ai.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a model from a [`Modelfile`](./modelfile.md). It is recommended to set `modelfile` to the content of the Modelfile rather than just set `path`. This is a requirement for remote create. Remote model creation must also create any file blobs, fields such as `FROM` and `ADAPTER`, explicitly with the server using [Create a Blob](#create-a-blob) and the value to the path indicated in the response.
```

### Examples

#### Create a new model

> Create a new model from a modelfile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a new model from a `Modelfile`.
```

```json
{
  "modelfile": "# Modelfile generated by \"ollama show\"\n# To build a new Modelfile based on this one, replace the FROM line with:\n# FROM llava:latest\n\nFROM /Users/matt/.ollama/models/blobs/sha256:200765e1283640ffbd013184bf496e261032fa75b99498a9613be4e94d63ad52\nTEMPLATE \"\"\"{{ .System }}\nUSER: {{ .Prompt }}\nASSSISTANT: \"\"\"\nPARAMETER num_ctx 4096\nPARAMETER stop \"\u003c/s\u003e\"\nPARAMETER stop \"USER:\"\nPARAMETER stop \"ASSSISTANT:\"",
  "parameters": "num_ctx                        4096\nstop                           \u003c/s\u003e\nstop                           USER:\nstop                           ASSSISTANT:",
  "template": "{{ .System }}\nUSER: {{ .Prompt }}\nASSSISTANT: ",
  "details": {
    "format": "gguf",
    "family": "llama",

>     "families": [ "llama", "clip" ],

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "families": ["llama", "clip"],
```
